So let's make this even a little
bit nicer developer experience.
This is what I would do if this
was my particular container.
I'd probably write a different
dev.docker file but
let's just modify this one directly.
What we're gonna do here is
under here we're gonna say
RUN npm install --global.
Or I'm lazy, so
I'll just say npm i -g, Nodemon.
And I've heard people say this a million
different ways, no demon, no demon.
I'm gonna go with nodemon.
So it's up to you how you
wanna say that nodemon.
This basically is a file
watcher that will research your
node server every single time
that it sees a file change.
So makes it really nice to developers So
I'm gonna install that up here.
And then down here, instead of
saying node, I'm gonna say, nodemon.
And this will make a really
nice developer experience so
we can just be going and
writing our server.
And then every time that we change
our file, we'll click save and
everything will just work So
right now, we have
to stop all this stuff and then restart it
every single time that we change a file.
I would say that's unfun.
So now with nodemon, we can make this
really fast because I won't have to
restart the container every single time
that we make our change to the files.
So now that we've done that
we save to docker file,
we're gonna say docker-compose up.
It should go through and
rebuild our container.
It doesn't look like it
actually rebuilt our container,
do we need to do it ourselves?
I might be modifying the wrong one,
I am, I modified the wrong one.
It's due when you have 19 Docker files.
All right, sorry.
So come into your networking Docker file.
I'm gonna do that up here.
Same thing.
RUN npm i -g nodemon, and
then down here, nodemon.
So that we can restart our development
environment every single time that we
save a file.
Okay, stop our server.
You can see that it's creating networks
on the fly for us, which is nice.
And then here we'll
restart docker-compose up.
So everything should
be still working here.
And then here, this is a networking,
so instead of saying success: true,
maybe we're gonna say success: false
And I'm not sure this actually ended
up rebuilding it, let's check.
Yeah, it didn't.
So why is that?
Is there somewhere I can force rebuild?
Yeah, let's do that.
Okay, so what we're gonna do,
is we're gonna say docker-compose
up --build because we know
we modified our Docker file.
It's gonna force it to build
the web container for us.
Typically, you're not modifying
your Docker file very much.
Usually you write your Docker file and
then it's a couple of months before
you have to go modify it again.
And then once this is built
this will work for us.
Okay, so, now, this is saying false here.
So instead of having to do that whole song
and dance, right, typically we'd have to
stop docker-compose,
docker-compose up, build, wait for
the Docker file to build again every
single time that we wanna see a change.
Now, in theory, if I come back.
It says false right now right there.
If I say true, and I go look here,
it should tell me that it restarted maybe.
Well, in any case, it's true now.
So now this allows us to
more rapidly iterate,
So you can be like brianIsCool,
and that's 100% true.
And I could refresh now,
brianIsCool: true.
Very cool, right?
Just like me.
Again, this is a very kind
of scratching the surface.
There's a lot more you can do with this.
Let's actually do something
a little bit fun here as well.
So I'm gonna stop this again,
wait for this to stop.
The cool thing about docker compose
is if you wanna simulate like running
multiple servers at the same to make sure
that everything is working correctly,
we can say docker-compose up and
then I can say --scale web=10.
Instead of starting just one web container
which is what it was doing before,
now it's gonna start ten web containers.
I don't even know why,
it's probably because they're
all listening to the same ports.
Yes, they're all trying
to bind to the same port.
Yeah, and so we have to go through and
have like a smarter like round-robin
way of binding to different ports.
Just to show you how this
actually would work, let's just.
If I just got rid of this which
means it wouldn't work anymore, but
it would start up.
There you go.
So then it's gonna go and start these
various different containers up.
And you can see here now I have a bunch
of all these different logs flown in from
seven different versions
of the same web container.
So if you're a bit smarter about
how you're binding into ports and
how you're listening,
you probably have to have some sort
of like load balancer in front of it.
So you could do that with like nginx,
you could do with like traffic,
there is a bunch of things
that will do it for you.
And then it would load balance between
all your various different containers.
That's a lot more involved than I wanna
get right now with Docker compose, but
all things are definitely possible here.
And it's pretty cool that we just
scaled out our service to ten different
containers just like that, just for fun.
Okay, cool.
Yeah, ha_proxy would work for
here as well.